---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/session-reports/murder-in-mid-air/murder-in-mid-air-session-1/"}
---

Aboard the TEAC2, several passengers awake from a horrible dream, one of pipes bursting, fire, falling to the earth, and death. Irah, a Lutridae, and "pet" of the Ranskiff family shares this dream with her friend Kelid, a young Elven girl. Humboard, an older Human man, Fugg G. Zuggles, an orange Grung, and Sseth'Reks Ahmaq, a Yuan-Ti Historian awake in their own rooms, as they each make their way to the passenger's dining hall. With all tables mostly or entirely full, these passengers find themselves looking at one another, and while all of them have a strange feeling, it is Humboard who realises that the dream he had was in fact a premonition of a future event, but chooses not to share this with his companions.

Fugg leaves the table at his earliest convenience, returning to the Second Class Executive floor and encountering Galileo Lorengar, a man he recognises as the Empire Crossroads Poker Champion from a few years ago. As Galileo struggles with his key in the lock of his room, Fugg manages to help him out, making an impression on the man before entering his room. While inside, he hears a rattling from the vent, and choosing to investigate, retrieves his tools and unscrews the cover, finding that he can handily fit inside. Following the noise accurately, he finds himself in the air vent of the First Class Executive corridor, seeing a tap has been twisted from a valve on a nearby pipe and wedged in the fan, causing it to rattle back and forth. Removing the piece of metal, and not noticing anything of further interest, Fugg returns to his room again.

Back in the dining hall, Humboard notices that Kelid does not seem too pleased to be on the ship, something that he finds to be scarcely believable. However he manages to intuit that her sadness comes from a source far deeper than not being a fan of the TEAC2, and he and Sseth attempt to cheer her up, with Sseth offering her and Irah front row seats to his puppet show he will be putting on later. The two accept the offer, planning to attend the show about an hour after the conclusion of Mr. Mapole's speech that has been scheduled for midday, as announced over the loudspeaker by a Ms. Laucian Gooseberry the day before.

Kelid and Irah depart, returning to the room they share with Jora, Kelid's older brother. Jora is there, having already headed out when the two awoke, saying he won't be staying long as he has to go meet with the Ranskiff parents before the speech. Kelid and Irah plan to head to the park, located on the very top floor of the TEAC2 and beneath a magical barrier that allows sunlight to pass through, but protecting passengers from the thin air present at such a height.

Sseth heads straight to the park from breakfast, as many entertainers on board spend some of their free time entertaining patrons in the park to drive attendance to their scheduled shows in the theatre. Despite the early hour, there are already a couple of children and families in the park, with two kids sitting by an older Gnome fishing in one of the ponds. As Sseth plays, the two children approach him slowly and enjoy his casual performance. After finishing his songs, he invites them to his show in the theatre, encouraging them to take an interest in history, tossing both of them a silver piece. The Gnome approaches Sseth, introducing himself as Slombur Cropfield, a well-travelled man from Miriamma. The two talk for a while about their respective travels, until Slombur returns to his fishing post once again.

As Humboard returns slowly but surely upstairs, planning to stop by his room before attending the speech, he senses a change in the hum of the ship after passing two members of staff engaged in an argument, something is wrong with it, but he can't quite place it. After attempting to enter a staff-only corridor, he is interrupted by Trivillow Glaff, a stout older Dwarf with firery red hair and soot stained glasses. He is cordial with Humboard, but unfortunately cannot be persuaded to let him into the restricted area, telling him that if he comes back another day, maybe he will show him. After briefly stopping in his room to freshen up, he re-enters the corridor to head to the park

As he is about to round the corner towards the park stairs, a young Elf slams into Humboard, dropping a briefcase that goes clattering across the hallway. Struggling to stand, Humboard gathers himself as the Elf makes a brief and sincere apology, before running off to meet someone. A Yuan-Ti heading in the opposite direction offers to walk Humboard to his room, but is waved off.

Irah and Kelid arrive at the park, still without sign of Jora. As people are beginning to arrive, Fugg sets up shop observing the people that walk in, looking for anyone interesting. Spotting someone he believes to be Galileo Lorengar, it turns out to be Ferdinand Lorengar, the twin of Galileo. He greets Fugg warmly and openly, laughing off his invitation to play some cards, but advising him that Galileo would certainly take him up on it. As Humboard enters the park, he spots a Platinum piece stuck in the grate at the bottom of one of the ponds. As he reaches for it however, he slips and finds himself almost drowning in the shallow water. The grate and pipes at the bottom of the pond create a suction effect that he finds it very difficult to escape from.

Right as things are at their most dire, an Elven man, Jallack Wrightwire II pulls Humboard from the water, placing him on his feet, and demanding they make this right, as the pond is clearly a health risk. He tells Humboard to meet him for dinner later that evening, and storms off towards the stage. 

As a crowd gathers, spectators look on as Jallack Wrightwire pulls a Half-Elf woman, recognised as Mrs. Eila Cotterin, the ship's second-in-command into a secluded area far behind the stage to speak with, before returning as Mr. Edwin Mapole takes to the stage giving a speech to the rapt audience. Less than a minute into the show, Jora Ranskiff returns to watch with Kelid and Irah. Throughout the following minutes, Mapole brags that he feels no fear about the threats made on his life by bad actors, stating that they haven't got him yet, and they likely never will.

Before he can complete the speech, a single shot rings out in the park like a thunderclap and Mapole's throat explodes outward behind him, falling to the ground dead in an instant. Chaos ensues, with staff attempting to rush the stage and flee, guests screaming and running for their lives, and the party members looking on in shock. Kelid and Jora sprint for the exit, as they go, Irah telepathically tells Kelid that she's going to split off, stealing some loose clothes and fabric from people sprinting past, disguising her Lutridae form. Sseth does his best to gather and comfort people straggling in the park, hoping to get an idea of what people have seen and to distract them from the horrors they have witnessed.

After an announcement rings out overhead, asking passengers to please return to their rooms and remain calm, Irah sneaks into a staff only area, Fugg and Humboard return to their respective rooms, and Sseth diligently continues to act as a steward for those in the park, bringing the session to an end.