---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/session-reports/forsworn-union/forsworn-union-session-3/"}
---

The party enters the Necropolis of Palceros, a place where the dead are laid to rest in this swampy area of Qullum. The frigid air, unfamiliar to them in the face of the cloying humidity of the outside reveals a large chamber of urns and a large stone orb hovering in the air, a light blue sigil glowing softly. Investigating the urns reveals them to be filled with ash, obtained from burning some form of organic material. Surveying the orb and its sigil shows it to have some form of conjuration magic, but mixed with some other unidentified spell.

After Quinzel confirms that the door to the next room is locked and sealed tightly, the gang decide that with no other choice apparent to them they should touch the orb. Upon doing so, black brackish water begins to bubble and pour from the urns around the room, beginning to pool on the floor and quickly reaching the party's ankles. Only slightly beginning to take concern at this, the orb is activated once again, and the water immediately vanishes, leaving no trace except for the chill on the skin it had touched. Sacrilege recalls that dark water is part of the Empire's mythology regarding death, and that typically elves believe their souls will return to a dark body of water tended to by Bathrion following death. Myrthana notices Nivian furiously taking notes and copying down the sigil and asks him to take a more proactive approach to the mission, and he agrees.

Following the disappearance of the water, and following a couple of failed attempts, the party are able to open the now unlocked heavy stone door. Hearing the sound of chains moving and clinking in the next room, Quinzel and Nivian resolve to scout ahead and check out the following room, being able to tell that it is a chamber far larger than the previous one. Succeeding on their stealth checks, they see a cathedral-like room, with a ceiling stretching far further upward than the exterior appearance of the building should allow. 

They see the ghostly figure of a humanoid woman walking the paths between the concentric circles of tombs that surround a large statue in the centre of the room. Seeing two rooms on either side of the large chamber blocked by wooden doors, the pair slip into the nearer of the two, finding evidence of living quarters shared by several people, with the hearth still glowing and giving off heat. After retrieving Sacrilege and Myrthana from the previous room and sneaking in once again, they investigate and find a list of names, the same number as combatants they faced as they approached the Necropolis. The party also find a copy of Sir Cadale's Guide to Immaculate Facial Hair, which nobody seems too keen to keep. Also of interest is a note asking for any information regarding Selebus, as Feremil has not seen him for several days.

The party re-emerge into the larger chamber, observing the statue and the ghostly form walking the trail. After assessing the woman's appearance and noticing her steps are almost too measured and too flawless, they attempt to get her attention, to no avail. Investigating the statue reveals it to be of Shar, Lady of Night, who safeguards the dead of Qullum and guides them into the afterlife. The statue is holding two shadow-wreathed chakrams and has several offerings of gold, gems, trinkets, and candles at its base, which is tempting to some members of the party, but ultimately left alone.  Myrthana and Sacrilege attempt to interact with the statue directly, but to no avail. Attempting to interface with the ghostly woman results in nothing, with her walking straight through anyone and anything placed in her way. Analysis of the magic in the room reveals the woman to be an illusion emanating from something close to the centre of the room, with Nivian concluding that one of the offerings is likely creating the image.

The gang then decide to investigate the room opposite to the living quarters. It is much better kept, and clearly home to only a couple of people, with higher quality clothes, bedding, and a desk with clear magical research being done by Feremil, although it is difficult to infer what specifically he is looking for. Following their investigation, the party continues into the next room, a smaller room with only a few coffins, some of them appearing to be in extreme disrepair, but upon examination, Sacrilege sees the tomb belonging to Kelta, the wife of Niamh Bhuillean is intact, and says a brief prayer to guide her in the afterlife. Quinzel notices a very sturdy looking stone tomb with Thieve's Cant on it, indicating that it belongs to a thief of high enough stature to have Thieves Cant openly displayed on their tomb. At the opposite end of this chamber, a set of wooden doors indicate the entrance to a small chapel, which the party decides to enter.

Right as the doors open, a sickly wave of warmth radiates from within the chapel, and a soft green light shines in contrast with the torches, as the party sees within the chamber. 5 pillars appearing to be made of melted human flesh stand spread across the room, and at the altar, Feremil, foul magic pouring into and from him. Outraged at the disturbance from outsiders, energy begins to crackle between Feremil and the pillars, and combat begins. The searing rays of magic begin to strike out at the party, and Myrthana successfully uses Suggestion to convince Fermil to momentarily drop concentration on this ritual. This lapse in power gives each member of the party the opportunity to land massive blows on Feremil, launching him from wall to corner, and bringing him to death's door. 

The gang begins to interrogate Feremil on his access to information and magic, and how he was able to to figure out how to commit such a horrible ritual. Enraged, but acknowledging that he's been beat, Feremil divulges that he was working partially on behalf of Harletious, a dark sorcerer who gave him the opportunity to grab his own power and wield fear over his own tiny domain in Qullum, and how he chose which of his friends he would turn into these flesh pillars by flipping a coin. Hearing this, Quinzel is incensed, demanding more information, but sensing that he's in a slight position of power, Feremil accepts his fate, mocking Quinzel for thinking they could stand a chance against Harletious. Quinzel proceeds to brutally beat Fermil to death over several minutes, with the hacking gurgling laughs echoing through the stone corridors long after he stops struggling.

As the party exits the Necropolis, having successfully dealt with the evil disturbing the peace of the dead, Quinzel divulges that Harletious Pathek is in fact their father, and the reason they have the scar that covers a large portion of their face. The gang also successfully identify the gem creating the vision of the ghostly woman, with Sacrilege pocketing it, to prevent any future visitors from being disturbed or put off by her presence. Emerging into the mild air outside of the Necropolis, Nivian states to the party that they should be a bit more honest with each other regarding their past and baggage. In the evening light, Sacrilege and Quinzel notice that the coffin they buried in the swamp has indeed risen to the surface, and they resolve to put it within the Necropolis as a sign of respect, and to not leave a coffin containing a decaying body lying out in the open.

Otis has recovered from the combat earlier in the day, and has prepared a meal for the party to enjoy as they prepare to camp out for the night, basking in their victory. Mynthara and Nivian discuss the sources of their magic. Understanding the difficulties of dealing with a Pact, particularly one made with a god as wily as Zehir, Nivian offers her whatever help he can provide, as his parents and his studies have given him information and contact with many learned scholars in the world of magic academia and pacts.

Note: The party levelled up to level 4 at the end of this session!