---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/session-reports/forsworn-union/forsworn-union-session-7/"}
---

As the party lies in wait for Jola Hew, they steel their nerves for the battle about to come. Organ music rings out in the chamber for a moment as the "vampire" reveals himself. He attempts a dramatic monologue as he descends the stairs, instead being interrupted by multiple projectiles and attacks damaging him. He orders Reyna, who is hidden on the balcony of the manor's upper floor to commence, and she burns a spell scroll, causing bat wings to emerge from Jola's back. He lifts off the ground and combat begins in earnest as his fingers grow long and sharp, lashing out at the heroes.

Jola becomes a veritable dervish swinging through the air, but the party realise shortly that he is not flying in actuality, instead being suspended from cables connected to some pivot point in the ceiling. After attacking it and bringing him to the ground, Jola Hew collapses, dead, being revealed to be a stunt double, as the true Jola makes himself known, continuing the fight in desperation. He brings several suits of armour in the room to life, causing them to swarm around the combat.

Bloodied and bruised, the party are finally able to put a stop to the noise, ending the reign of terror of Hew Manor's Lord across Phoenix Rest. The party approach Reyna, who is stunned, the idea of freedom from Jola being a completely alien concept, as she runs into his study and takes a couple of things before the party allows her to take her leave, fleeing from the house forever.

Taking stock of the situation, Myrthana resolves that the party should approach Sisset Corefal and see what reward he can offer them. They return to the theatre, finding it mostly abandoned, save for the mysterious elven man that Myrthana had previously encountered, who seems strangely unbothered by the idea that Jola Hew has been killed. He is walking about on the stage reading from a script that was left by one of the Calypso Spire performers. While walking around the room and inspecting it, Sacrilege confirms that the spiritual energy of the space is still intact, if not stronger following their actions. Quinzel notices a minute etching in Thieves Cant on the rear of one of the theatre seats, seeing that the name inscribed there, being Rudan Ollador, a halfling thief from a common children's story who stole greater and greater items from regular and later magical people before he messed with the wrong wizard and received some punishment that is never consistent across tellings of the tale. 

Quin, in this moment, realises that Rudal Ollador was the name on the sarcophagus they noticed back in the Palceros Necropolis, resolving to try and find some more information about Rudan in the future.

The elven man tells the party that Sisset is likely still drowning his sorrows but would be very grateful to hear that they have removed the barrier stopping the opera from happening. The group head to the Metal Manatee, the same dingy tavern they found him in previously, and after being politely asked about a reward, and then being slightly less politely pressed for a reward, he tells them that Tallman Beltbuckle, the armoury that Quin had spotted on the way into town, is providing the mockup weapons and shields for the opera, and they can go there and take whatever they like, placing it on the tab of the opera's production. He admits that he will be slightly more careful about promising impossible rewards for impossible tasks to people as stubborn as the party going forward.

Tallman Beltbuckle is an unassuming looking armoury, run by an Arachne named Steward. He greets them happily when they inform him they are here to brows on the dime of Sisset Corefal. Looking through the items, each member of the party finds something very well suited to them.

Sacrilege: A Mace of pure night, perhaps from Shar herself, that hexes a target on critical strikes, along with some medium armour that casts Bane on enemies that make contact with it (3 times per short rest)
Quinzel: A wickedly sharp rapier that deals enhanced damage on a critical strike (+2d6) as well as some unassuming armour that now makes them resistant to lightning damage
Myrthana: A cloak of displacement that gives enemies disadvantage on hitting her until she is hit for the first time in combat, enhanced with studded leather armour that increases her amour class

Deciding that they would like to leave town sooner rather than later, the group gather their belongings from the Weavebough, reuniting with Otis and packing up the carriage. During the check out process, the group notices a new poster on the bulletin board behind the bar, advertising an energetic dog free to a good home, as the owner is no longer equipped to take care of it. On a whim, everyone agrees that they would like to at least meet this dog.

Thankfully, the house is on the way out of town, so the party pays a visit to Earl, the old gnomish man who is moving away from Phoenix Rest after the death of his wife, and is no longer able to keep up with the needs of Oscar, his dog. The small Schnauzer greets the party eagerly, tail wagging as he disappears and reappears from view, blinking to and fro, clearly full of energy. Earl laughs, wondering how he was ever able to keep track of where he was. The party resolutely adopt Oscar, taking him in with them as they depart from Phoenix Rest, a wave from Earl sending them on their way as they travel away from the cobbled streets and through the vast farmlands of Aeconia, bringing the session to a close.

[[HomePage\|Back to Home]]
