---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/session-reports/forsworn-union/forsworn-union-session-4/"}
---

Following their victory over Feremil in the Necropolis of Palceros, the party returns to the humble town to inform the locals that it was once again safe to visit their dead and pay their respects. Sacrilege informs Niamh Bhuillean that her wife's grave was intact and undisturbed, and as a show of thanks is given a pendant that belonged to the deceased Kelta in life, representing her belief in the Trinity-based religion of the Empire, the Fey, the Firm and the Fell. Upon closer inspection the pendant is revealed to contain some magical powders in three sections, enough for one use of each.

The party divulges some details to Mr. Moriarty about the happenings in the Necropolis, and he thanks them for the service they had done for the area, wishing them well on their continued journey, and imploring them to return to the village in future, where they would be greeted as friends. With nothing left to take care of in the swamp town of Palceros, the party takes to the road, with Otis informing them that they should reach the border into Aeconia within the week. Quinzel rides up front, asking if they may learn how to drive with Otis's guidance, and Sacrilege rides in the back, now a druidic initiate taking in the natural surroundings passing the group by. As she engages in her regular prayers, she feels a shade of druidic magic tinting her typically purely religious sense of satisfaction.

Over the following days of travel, the swampland slowly but surely turns to forest, the drooping boughs of the willow trees becoming sturdier, thicker and wider, growing taller and taller before the trees themselves begin to block out the sun, with only filtered sunlight reaching the ground. The air turns from muggy humidity, to the cool, damp smell of layered organic debris and natural decay on the forest floor. Eventually the trees become pillars reaching into the mist, a few dozen feet in circumference, and Otis informs the party that they are a day's travel from crossing the border from Kallezhu into Aeconia. That night, Nivian invites everyone to join him around the fire, and invites each person present to discuss their past, so they can encourage trust among the party, and act more easily in each others interest, and the interest of Kallezhu. 

Going first, Nivian reveals that he in fact is not the biological son of his parents. He is the youngest of his siblings, but also adopted, having appeared one night at his parent's doorstep as an infant, being taken in and raised by them as a son, receiving education in magic and history from a variety of scholars. 

Quinzel further divulges their history as a child of Harletious Pathek. Their mother passed when they were young, and begged Harletious as she went to make the world united for their child. Maddened by grief, and tempted by the call of the Underdark, Harletious became driven by the idea of creating the Alldark, a unified banner under which he would rule, and allow all the creatures and beings that live below to rule. In an attempt to prepare his child to act as a soldier of the Alldark, Quinzel was raised with intense regimented training, with rare comfort and rarer sentimentality. They also revealed that Harletious made a deal with a Hag who created a shadowy sibling for Quinzel, tricking them into perceiving their brother as a training partner, but more importantly a confidant and friend, despite the fierce competition forced upon them by their father. Any time Quinzel became close to anyone or anything, Harletious destroyed it, slaughtered it, or banished it, only Beck remained constant. When Quinzel was finally old enough to resist their father, He revealed Beck's true nature, sic'ing him on Quinzel and leaving them almost dead, their face sliced open. Quinzel hasn't seen their father since.

Myrthana, spurred on by Quinn, shares her reasoning for taking a Pact with the Betrayer god. Growing up in the Underdark was cruel and unforgiving, and she lost her parents at a young age. Her brother, who she was never close to, but is her only real link to her family has been missing almost as long as she can remember. At the age of 15, seeing no way forward for herself, she made a desperate plea to any god that could hear, and was taken up on the offer by Zehir, who asked her to spread his message of betrayal and pain as much as she can for her next 10 birthdays. Upon her 25th year, she was ecstatic, longing to finally form bonds with others and live a more peaceful and relaxed life. However, Zehir revealed to her that her Pact was not yet fulfilled, as she was born on a leap year, and therefore had decades more left to serve him. Since then, she has resolved herself to attempting to find any way possible out of her pact. Hearing this, Nivian begins writing in his notebook again, apologising but stating that he has something he needs to think about. He asks Sacrilege if she would like to speak about her history and faith.

Sacrilege goes on to talk about growing up, losing her mother at an early age, and how her father struggled with the faith of Luotheos, which drove her further into devotion. She hasn't spoken to her father in many years now, and after purging her life of sin, has begun her pilgrimage and travel around the continent, spreading the word of Luotheos, and attempting to be kind, generous, and most importantly, encourage people to follow Luotheos in their freedom. She says she admires her companions and is incredibly grateful for her companions listening to her discuss her faith, even if they may not believe in it fully. The party all agree that this is the first time each of them have felt like they are part of a group and have true friends.

After the discussion has completed, Myrthana approaches Nivian who informs her that since Zehir was not fully honest in his depiction of the terms of the contract, there may be an opportunity for the contract to be made null and although he will have to speak with several people and spend a lot of time on it, he will do his best, much to Myrthana's delight.

The next day, before the party finally crosses the border into Aeconia, a fact they only know due to Otis informing them, Sacrilege spots a door in the base of one of the enormous trees, with a lantern floating above, and asks Otis to stop so she can investigate. After the woman inside, Marla, a Firbolg, realises Sacrilege is a member of her Church, she invites the gang inside for tea and to engage in the practice of tying a wish to the Wandertree so that it may come true. Myrthana, Quinzel and Nivian decline to take part, but Sacrilege and Otis both write something on the white ribbons provided by Marla. Myrthana manages to catch the word "return" written on Otis's ribbon as he hands it over, but can't see anything more than that. Marla invites Sacrilege to join her higher in the tree so they can tie the ribbons together. 

Once the two are alone together and discuss their individual perspectives on their faith, Marla asks Sacrilege if she remembers her name. Sacrilege confirms that she does, but admits she feels bad, as it is a violation of the rules of the church. Marla smiles, and says quietly to Sacrilege that one of the best parts of worshipping a god of freedom is that breaking the rules is a sort of unique freedom in and of itself, before returning downstairs. The party thanks Marla for her hospitality and returns to the carriage.

After at last crossing the border, they turn onto a much larger and well travelled road, spending the full day on it without encountering anyone. That night as they make camp, the gang overhear whispering and chattering voices in the foliage nearby, and make an attempt to investigate. Finding a tiny campsite with tents hidden among the bushes, the party are greeted by the 45th Royal Escurian Scouting Company, a group of Squirrel-folk. The leader, Pip, tells the party that they are currently engaging in their Expert Scouting induction, where they must circumnavigate the continent of Qullum, collect various seeds from the local foliage and cultivate them in a garden back in their Scouting headquarters in Uhtgard. The party advises them on the turn they should take to reach Palceros, and are thanked by the Scouts, who promise not to steal from them in the night. 

As the party travels on, they watch as the trees start to shrink in size gradually, until all of a sudden, as if emerging from a pool, they find themselves in open air, looking out onto lush, tended and tilled farmland, finally feeling as if they have entered into a new region of the world. Otis tells them that they can look for a place to camp, but if they carry on a couple of hours after sunset, they will reach the town of Phoenix Rest. Nivian is excited at the mention of the town, as he enjoys opera, and Phoenix Rest is well regarded for its theatre and calibre of performers. Nobody else has attended the opera, and Nivian, outraged at this, demands that everyone join him at a performance of Calypso Spire as they spend a few days decompressing and celebrating their successes in the town. The party retort demanding that Nivian do something new during their stay, with Myrthana suggesting dancing. Nivian pales at this, before giving a non-committal answer, as the party decides to push on and reach the town.

Just after sundown, the carriage trundles into the town, making contact with fully-cobbled streets for perhaps the first time ever. As they head for the Weavebough, a tavern that Otis has heard of that has large lodging spaces, Quinzel spots an armoury called Tallman Beltbuckle and resolves to visit it the next day. The gang arrives at the tavern, which is much busier than any tavern any of them have seen before. They manage to secure some rooms in the almost full inn, with Nivian footing the bill, and attempting to slyly pay for drinks for everyone in advance. Failing to conceal this, the barmaid, a middle-aged Tiefling woman asked them when they would like to have their drinks. The party decide to go to each of their rooms before reconvening and sharing a night of celebration in the warm and personable atmosphere of the Weavebough.

Unpacking in their rooms and noting the green vials of liquid that serve as mouthwash and a hangover cure, the group settle in before they begin a night of drinking, Sacrilege says a prayer, feeling slightly less connected to nature as they are now in a larger town with a sizeable population

Everyone enjoys wine of varying colours and flavours, with Myrthana failing her Constitution save and becoming slightly more inebriated than the rest. As the time approaches midnight, the people in the bar begin to push tables back as live musicians begin to play, forming a dance floor. Sensing an opportunity, the gang take to the crowd, beginning to dance. Sacrilege and Quinzel attempt to get a handle on the local gossip, only able to infer that Jola Hew, a lead in one of the shows currently being shown in the theatre is "Weird". Myrthana successfully convinces Nivian to join her on the dance floor, finding a slightly more secluded corner for the two of them. Although slightly awkward, Nivian begins to enjoy himself gradually, keeping a hold of Myrthana's hand as they go. As the celebrations gradually slow down for the night, the party retires for the night, bringing the session to a close.