---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/session-reports/forsworn-union/forsworn-union-session-1/"}
---

In the 2926th year of the Tal'Eraiean empire, the state of Kallezhu, one of two non-member states on the continent of Qullum, has voted and declared the intent of the people to become part of the Garrison Union. The leader of the state, Brother Durran, a middle aged dwarf, gives a speech on the muddy shore of Lake Dru'ug, unveiling the new flag of Kallezhu, and declaring their intent to send a missive delegation to the capital of the Union in Velfoke.

After the speech, Brother Durran is seen speaking with Sir Cadalae, one of the governing leaders of the Garrison Union who has attended the speech on their behalf, appearing mildly frustrated at the conversation. In the slowly dispersing crowd, we see Myrthana, Quinzel Pathek, and Sacrilege Vayn, who overhear as Brother Durran returns to the stage, making a plea for volunteers to travel to the capital. Myrthana, finding a note in her pocked that wasn't there before, decides after reading it that she should join up. Quinzel and Sacrilege also approach Brother Durran after deciding the road to the capital will likely help for their own information gathering and sharing missions.

Myrthana manages to convince Brother Durran to offer half of the payment for the job upfront, and Quinzel requests some lollipops to keep their supplies up for the journey. 

Before too long, a carriage driven by a Warforged, Otis, arrives by the lake and the party make their way over to begin their journey. Travelling with them is Nivian Corescant, son of a trusted advisor to Brother Durran who will be acting as the diplomatic lead for the journey. After official introductions have been made, the party sets off to travel south east, through the marshes of Kallezhu before reaching the border into Aeconia, the larger state that encompasses the governing state of the Union, Velfoke.

The first day of travel goes smoothly, Quinzel and Myrthana sit up front with Otis, watching as they commandeer the vehicle, intuiting that the reins they hold to direct the horse are actually part of their body, and they are using druidic magic to communicate with the horses as they travel. Inside the carriage, Sacrilege successfully identifies that Nivian is taking notes and reading through a beastiary of magical creatures. He is training to act as a translator not only between beings and folk that live in structured societies but all forms of magical being capable of communication. 

After stopping and making camp for the night, and a couple of incidents of legs sinking into mud, Myrthana takes first watch, spotting a mysterious light in the distance. After examining it for a while, she wakes Sacrilege and Quinzel to examine it with her. Upon approach, they realise it is a small Gnomish girl named Fidur, alone in the marsh carrying a single candle. Myrthana senses some Fae-aligned magic in the air, and Quinzel and Sacrilege make efforts to comfort and find out where Fidur is lost from. As they make their way back to camp, they learn that her friends told her there are ghosts in the marsh and dared her to find one, but she found herself lost once the sun went down.

Finally back at their camp, they give a bedroll to Fidur and Sacrilege sets about making her some food. Quinzel heads out to find a place to sleep away from camp, and Myrthana tells a stirred Nivian that theyre planning to sacrifice him, before pulling his covers over his head as he returns to sleep. Once Fidur is fed and ready to sleep, She wakes Otis to take over last watch. 

Quinzel finds an incredibly comfortable hammock strung up in a tree, and alongside it a waterproof knapsack and a book in a language they cannot read, save for the Thieves Cant on the spine that reads "helpful information for later". They spend a restful night in the hammock before reuniting at camp in the morning.

In the morning, Myrthana teases Nivian for not taking a watch throughout the night, as well as his uncertainty about the "dreams" he had the previous night. Once the group has eaten breakfast and Quinzel packs up the hammock, they set off towards the town of Palceros, an unimpressive group of buildings raised from the swampy muck on stilts and bricks, the humble tavern appearing to be the only place of business among them. Fidur thanks the party for their help, heading in the direction of her home.

Nivian enters the inn followed by Myrthana, attempting to book some rooms for the group, but upon realising he does not know how to spell everyone's names, he leaves to ask the others, leaving Myrthana to write her name with Nivian's in the one room, giving everyone else a room to themselves. Once the party reunites inside, Quinzel asks the Gelatinous Cube innkeeper if they know of a library in the area, wanting to inquire about the book, getting no direction on it in response. The party head to their rooms, and reunite downstairs after catching their bearings, resolving to examine the book, which is in Draconic, only able to be read by Myrthana. The title "On the Subject of Hauntings" is the only part she can translate before the session comes to a close

[[HomePage\|Back to Home]]