---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/session-reports/forsworn-union/forsworn-union-session-5/"}
---

Waking up after their night of celebration, the PCs meet downstairs for a hot breakfast, noting that Nivian has not joined them. They notice a young girl selling papers outside on the street, and Sacrilege generously gives her a gold piece so the gang can read about the cancellation of the Calypso Spire opera following the ill health of two understudies and the departure of the lead actor. Deciding to investigate it, as they had heard that the former lead actor of the production, Jola Hew was acting strangely, Myrthana goes to wake Nivian, who had overslept, being slightly hungover, but excited to visit the theatre

At the theatre, the party sees a large group of workers dismantling sets, removing props and costumes as well as taking down the marquee. Myrthana intimidates Andras, a goblin pulling some of the lettering off the board into directing them towards the most senior person in the building. They head inside, slipping into a staff-only area posing as concerned patrons and encounter Zeddoro, a middle-aged Tabaxi woman in charge of stage operations. 

Zeddoeo begrudgingly allows them a few moments to speak with Caspian Phartread, one of the understudies of Jola Hew, in the main dressing room. He advises them that he has been experiencing poor sleep, general fatigue, and dizzy spells since he visited Jola at his home to check up on him. Jola had been requesting that all rehearsals take place after sunset, and that no matinee performances were to be held. The party asks for his script, as they have a theory that the very play itself may be cursed, and Caspian obliges.

Following their discussion with Caspian, the party decides to wait for a while in the lobby to hopefully speak with Gett'haks about his own experience, particularly his loss of consciousness on stage which was the final nail in the coffin for the production. As they wait, Quinzel and Sacrilege pour over old photo albums and historical records, trying to see if the theatre itself may be cursed, but find nothing indicating such, in fact seeing the very opposite, that rites in worship of Bane, god of combat and performance were performed at the opening of the theatre. Myrthana walks through a small shrine room into the main theatre, and encounters an elven man sat inside enjoying the silence, who tells her that the theatre is a sacred space, and encourages her to look elsewhere for the source of the ill fate upon the cast.

Sacrilege investigates the shrine room, seeing photos of venerated actors and patrons, as well as several small and large offerings to Bane, recognising it as a well-kept and well-loved holy space. From this the party conclude that the theatre itself is likely not the source of the issue. At this point, Gett'haks arrives to collect his last payment for the Calypso Spire, giving similar answers to Caspian, particularly regarding his poor health in the last week and his collapse the previous night. He advises the party to speak with Sisset Corefal, the director, if they are given the opportunity, and gives over his own script, which doesn't appear to have any form of enchantment or curse on it, similar to Caspian's.

The gang make Hew Manor their next port of call, wanting to check in on Jola themselves. They approach the large stately manor just outside the town centre, all wrought iron and stark shadows and are greeted by a pale, sharp-looking half-elf butler named Reyna, who lets them inside after Sacrilege pretends to be the grand-daughter of Molly Lang, one of the patrons listed in the photo album she had looked through at the theatre.

Reyna invites the party to wait in the drawing room, while she goes to see if Jola is willing to take guests today. Once inside, they see the windows are all dark, no torches are lit, and the only light source they encounter is the fireplace in the drawing room itself, contrasting with the cold emptiness of the main hall. The party sees the drawing room is equipped with books across almost every wall, and an open volume on a study desk, detailing the methods and means by which a person can identify a vampire, and how they behave, although Quinzel spots there are notably no tomes detailing the origins and transmission of vampirism.

Jola Hew almost glides into the drawing room, deathly pale and rasping in speech. The party claim to be reporters for a local paper and he immediately seems more willing to speak to them about his condition. He tells them that he inherited the home from his parents two years prior following their tragic deaths, and that he has become almost nocturnal. After flatly being asked if he is a vampire, he becomes seemingly incensed, demanding that the party leave him at once. As they leave, Nivian and Quinzel become overtaken by the intense need to inform everyone they can that Jola Hew is a vampire.

Entering into the early evening air, the party decide to seek out Sisset Corefal, the director. After trawling some of the less-polished bars and establishments, a tiny pub called The Metal Manatee is where they find Sisset, a large Tortle in his 5th decade. Myrthana and Nivian approach him, while Quinzel keeps watch for any suspicious activity nearby, and Sacrilege stands by the door in case anyone of interest passes by. 

Posing as a couple who are patrons of the theatre, Myrthana manages to glean that Sisset has no real idea of the affliction seeming to affect Jola, and wants nothing more than for the show to go on, as it would be his directorial debut. When Myrthana pledges that she will do her best to get it back on stage again, Sisset says he will owe her everything in the world. Nivian grips Sisset's arm and whispers to him that Jola is a vampire, and Sisset merely laughs him off, calling Jola a drama queen. He tells them they should speak to Millie, a former flame of Jola's and Bombie, someone who was a close friend of Jola until a month or two ago, as they were closer with him than anyone else in the theatre and would likely have a better idea of his situation.

Walking through the streets towards the theatre once again, mist begins to fill the evening air as the session comes to a close.

[[HomePage\|Back to Home]]