---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/session-reports/forsworn-union/forsworn-union-session-6/"}
---

Walking through the streets of Phoenix Rest, the light of the late evening begins to dim, along with the torchlight spilling from nearby windows. Silence falls over the town like a blanket as the party realises they are very much alone. Approaching a crossroads, an older man floats half a foot from the ground, arms held wide waiting for them to get close to him. Dressed in regal attire, and with a stern look, he addresses the party, demanding they answer for their harassment of Jola Hew, one of his thrall. Introducing himself as Lord Asmodeum Foulbrood, he advances on the party, kicking off a battle by casting a sphere of Silence on them.

Throughout the fight, Sacrilege attempts to Turn Undead, which has no effect on the Vampire Lord, and once he drops her to 0HP, she does not fall, and realises that Lord Asmodeum Foulbrood is an apparition, not having a physical presence in the real world. Nivian comments on recognising him as a character from an opera that terrified him as a child. The visage of the Vampire lord fades away and the world comes back into focus as they all realise they were victims of a great illusion. Attempting to shake it off, they eventually reach the theatre, where a few people have stayed late to clear out some of the final remnants of Calypso Spire, including Clam and Millie, a former friend and flame of Jola, respectively.

Clam is immediately standoffish, not wanting to discuss Jola at all, and wanting nothing to do with him again, citing him as going off the deep end following the death of his parents. Millie herself is much more sombre, telling the party of the terror that gripped her when she was convinced that Jola was a Vampire, how she has never felt as scared in her entire life, and hopes to never feel that way again. She relays to them that after sleeping on it, she shook off the intense feeling that he was a vampire, and now desires to never see him again. After offering to kill Jola, she says that she trusts the party's judgement, and that she will not cry for him.

Returning to the Weavebough, Quinzel heads immediately to bed, having a terrible nightmare of their brother and father, being torn to bloody shreds after showing mercy to their brother in a sparring session. As this is happening, Sacrilege, Myrthana and Nivian share some drinks in the much quieter main bar area of the Weavebough, before Sacrilege retires herself, being faced with a horrible vision of Marla leading her upwards through the tree that they had climbed together, before shutting her out of a verdant green plain, and speaking a name wordlessly, as Sacrilege plummets downwards through the centre of the tree, falling toward certain death.

Downstairs, Myrthana and Nivian discuss the day's events and their posing as a couple while talking to Sisset Corefal. The two share a kiss, and after agreeing to share several more, they depart to Nivian's room. Each of them are greeted by their own nightmares. Myrthana sees herself completely paralysed and sleeping next to Nivian, watching as her weapon, Throatrazor, hovers above him, directly above his heard. A spectral hand reaches across the room and turns over an hourglass on the dresser, leaving her helpless save for watching the time run out. 

The next morning, Sacrilege notices that Myrthana is not in their shared room, and knocks on Nivian's door to ask where she went. Myrthana convinces Nivian not to answer it, so Sacrilege and Quinzel meet downstairs for breakfast and to discuss the course of action that will be taken regarding Jola Hew. Eventually they are joined by Myrthana and Nivian, who agree that they want revenge on Hew, both for themselves and as a means of retribution for Millie. The party also share their dreams with one another, and Nivian tells them that he dreamt of watching those important to him suffer terrible fates as he was left powerless, unable to cast any of the spells that have become second nature to him. Everyone is shaken but agrees that the dreams must be yet another symptom of their interactions with Hew.

Setting out after a hearty breakfast, the party resolutely step up to Hew Manor, no longer being taken for a fool by the intentionally frightful appearance of the building. Nivian blows the door off the hinges and allows them to step inside, as Reyna fearfully demands that they leave, eventually relenting and saying she will summon Jola for them. As the party wait for their quarry to approach, they prepare an ambush in the entrance hall, bringing the session to a close

[[HomePage\|Back to Home]]