---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/forsworn-union-session-2/"}
---

In the dank and damp tavern of Palceros, Quinzel, Sacrilege and Myrthana pore over "On the Subject of Hauntings" revealed to be a scholarly tome about paranormal events, their signs, and how they come about. While Myrthana can read the text of the book, Quinzel is able to read the thieves' cant throughout:
- On a page about how hauntings begin and the shadows that strong emotions leave on the world, a note that says "Story?"
- On a page regarding the signs and indications of hauntings, a couple of lines "Magic necessary, can Feremil do it?"
After mulling over the books contents, the group asks the bartender about a person by the name of Feremil, or the book's author, J.E. The bartender is unfamiliar with the author, but recognises Feremil by name as a local ne'er-do-well who has recently disappeared with some other unsavoury associates, including Selebus, someone Feremil has previously been associated with. Shortly after their disappearance, the Palceros Necropolis started exhibiting signs of hauntings, leading to local people retreating from it and not travelling to pay respect to their relatives for the last month.

The group decides to retire for the night, and to make some inquiries the next day regarding Feremil and Selebus. Sacrilege sleeps in the fancy hammock placed in her room by Quinzel, while Quin meditates outside for an hour before retiring to sleep. Myrthana and Nivian briefly discuss Nivian's studies of communication with non-human creatures before turning in to their respective hammocks.

Upon waking the gang meets in the main area of the tavern, eating the provided breakfast of slightly watery porridge before discussing the haunting of the Necropolis further with the gelatinous cube bartender. Nivian gets the heebie jeebies regarding the topic of ghosts and the undead and decides to sit it out. It divulges to them that the reason the Necropolis was established in the first place was to have a stable and permanent place to inter the bodies of the deceased of the town, as burying bodies in the swamp results in the coffin and body rising to the surface of the water after some time. 

As Quinzel discusses this with the bartender, a gnomish woman enters the bar and approaches Sacrilege, introducing herself as Jemma, Fidur's mother. She gives her a small wrapped parcel as a way of saying thanks for returning Fidur from the marsh, and divulges information when asked about Mr. Moriarty, a former schoolteacher in the town who had previously taught both Feremil and Selebus when they were children. She says that he would be the best to ask about the men and their potential whereabouts. 

After these conversations, some regular patrons start to file into the bar, and after being approached by Quinzel and Sacrilege, one of them, an older dwarven man confirms that he is indeed Moriarty, the former teacher. They buy him a drink and he tells them of Selebus and Feremil in their youth, how they would disappear sometimes for days into the swamp, returning with tall tales and unbelievable stories. As they got older, their stories became nastier and meaner, and their claims of robbery and harm to lost travellers became harder to ignore. Before they disappeared 6 weeks ago there was rumblings of them finally having a big break.

Another of the patrons at the table warns the party against travelling to the Necropolis, but asks that if they do, could they check on her wife Kelta's grave, with Sacrilege promising to do so. Myrthana goes to her and Nivian's room and asks him if he will come with them if and when they travel to the Necropolis, with him begrudgingly agreeing. With this information in hand, the party reunite with Otis and head out of town towards where Otis knows the Necropolis to be.

After turning off the main path, the party and their carriage are stopped by a lone figure stood in the middle of the road, who threatens them to turn back. After stepping closer, the gang realise that it is in fact two figures, and as Quinzel attempts to stealthily climb a tree to get a better view of the situation, they catch sight of two bandits waiting in the cover. At this, a fight breaks out, with two more bandits emerging from the treeline and firing on the party. Otis takes several hits, assuming their Starry form and attempting to take care of the Goblin and Dragonborn. They become the main target of the thugs and bandits, being knocked to their knees, with Sacrilege doing their best to keep them standing, shielding them with spells and placing a Bane on their adversaries. Quinzel methodically, brutally, and single-handedly disposes of the two bandits staring them down in the trees with their dagger. Myrthana sends eldritch blasts at the Dragonborn thug and his Goblin companion, dark energy springing from her hands and Nivian steps forth to offer supporting fire and to help Otis retreat, destroying two of the bandits' faces with acid and fire. 

Eventually, the party manage to dispose of the aggressors, with Nivian struggling to come to terms with the fact that he has now taken another life. Quinzel wipes their hands clean and takes what they can find from the bodies, including some coin, a bird-shaped whistle and a bloodstained letter from the bandit's father. Myrthana attempts to talk Nivian through what has just happened and reassure him. After Sacrilege picks up the body of the goblin and leaves it on the carriage, planning to test a theory, the party carefully completes the rest of the journey to the Necropolis, a vast, one story stone building, almost entirely featureless save for the carved pillars either side of the large wooden entrance.

The gang take a short rest, after which Quinzel and Sacrilege build a makeshift coffin which they place the goblin inside and bury under the soft earth of the swamp, wanting to see the body rise to the surface themselves. Otis, Nivian and Myrthana set about making a fire and a simple campsite outside the door in case the party must stay the night in the open. Otis and Nivian compliment Myrthana on her magical abilities, to which she reveals that her magic comes from a pact. Nivian offers her any help that he might be able to give with the terms of her pact, but refuses to pry further into the subject, as he understands pacts to be a sensitive matter sometimes.

Noticing an unnatural cold, the party realise that the environs are being magically manipulated to feel colder than the humid expanse of the swamp, but notably there is no trace of necromancy in the air. They decide to take the first steps into the Necropolis, upon which they realise the door has no handle. Checking the surroundings for another way inside, Sacrilege holds up the book the group found, testing if an offering will open the door. Quinzel notes a previously skipped over line of thieves cant reminding the owner of the book to not forget their key, followed by a drawing of a bird.

After taking out the whistle they found and blowing on it sharply, the door clicks open, cold air greeting our heroes as they take their first tentative look inside the Palceros Necropolis, bringing the session to a close